# Recommendation for Jan O'Brien

December 21, 2016 // Winter Solstice ;)

Jan was recommended to me by my manager. I work in software development and
cross over into operations. I'd taken on some people manager responsibilities
in the past year as well. My plan was to continue in some kind of lead role,
but the world of software development is changing. It's becoming flatter, and
almost everyone needs to keep their skills up to date.

Jan and I talked, and among other things, I expressed an interest (and
ambivalence) about straddling the line between moving more into a leadership
role versus continuing as an individual contributor. She asked a number of
questions, and we got into some long discussions. It was helpful to hear myself
saying what I'd been thinking, and Jan had good feedback and advice about how
to go forward.

I use the word generative to describe the process Jan puts you through.
Starting from answers to a common set of questions, she'll ask about different
experiences, goals and motivations. Then, maybe one section at a time, she'll
turn your collection of thoughts and comments into a story -- the story of you.
The goal is to be compelling on multiple levels. Different (resume) readers
will be looking for different things, and may even have differnt ways of
scanning a resume. So it's a balancing act to get it all in there and catch
everyone's eyes, however they take it in.

Her writing and organization are very good. By that I mean, she took my
comments and notions, and turned them into prose. The end result was a more
holistic picture of me, rather than a list of skills and experiences. Those are
there too, but they're supporting the main narrative, rather than playing a
starring role.

I was a little uneasy with what we came up with at first. But I believe that's
because Jan was writing my resume for my next role, whereas I may have been
unconsciously thinking of competing for the role I've already got. After that
sunk in, I got a little more comfortable with it. But trying to stretch
yourself should be a little uncomfortable. I'll take that over doing the same
old thing any day!

